Setting up Kodi inside a Debian WSL environment to feed into Playnite is an interesting "Frankenstein" project. Since WSL doesn't naturally behave like a secondary monitor, you’ll need to bridge the gap between Linux's display output and Windows' interface.

Here is the step-by-step guide to getting this running.

1. Prepare Debian WSL
First, ensure your Debian instance is up to date and has the necessary drivers for GUI support (WSLg).

Open your Debian terminal.

Update your packages:

Bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
Install Kodi:

Bash
sudo apt install kodi -y
2. Configure Graphics & Sound
For Kodi to run smoothly, WSL needs to access your GPU.

GPU Acceleration: Ensure you have the Windows GPU Sandbox driver installed (usually automatic with Windows 11).

Audio: WSLg handles audio via PulseAudio automatically, but if you hear nothing, try installing the following:

Bash
sudo apt install libasound2 alsa-utils -y
3. Creating the "Bridge" Script
Playnite needs an .exe or a .bat file to trigger the launch. Since Kodi is inside Linux, we will create a small script in Windows to call it.

Open Notepad.

Paste the following:

Code snippet
@echo off
wsl -d Debian kodi --fullscreen
Save this as launch_kodi.bat in a folder you won't delete (e.g., C:\Scripts\).

4. Integrate with Playnite
Now, let’s make it look pretty in your library.

Open Playnite.

Click Add Game > Manual.

In the General tab:

Name: Kodi (WSL)

In the Installation tab:

Set the Installation Directory to your script folder.

In the Actions tab:

Click Add Action.

Type: Executable.

Path: Select your launch_kodi.bat.

(Optional) Download a Kodi icon and background image to make it fit the Playnite aesthetic.

Important Considerations
Why use WSL for Kodi?
To be honest, it’s a bit like taking the scenic route. Since a native Windows version of Kodi exists, you might run into input lag or HDR limitations in WSL that the native app doesn't have.

Tip: If you encounter "Permission Denied" errors when Kodi tries to access hardware, try adding your user to the video and audio groups:
sudo usermod -a -G video,audio,render $USER

Performance Tweak
If the window looks blurry or the scaling is off, you can create a .wslconfig file in your Windows User folder (%USERPROFILE%) to allocate more memory to the Linux kernel:

Ini, TOML
[wsl2]
memory=4GB 
processors=4
Is there a specific reason you're opting for the Debian/WSL setup instead of the native Windows Kodi app?