Gemini said
Streaming Lutris through Sunshine (especially from a Windows host via WSL) is a fantastic way to access Linux-specific runners and emulators on other devices like a Steam Deck or a TV.

Since Sunshine is likely running on your Windows host, you need to configure it to "reach into" WSL to trigger Lutris.

1. Configure the Launch Command
In your Sunshine Web UI (https://localhost:47990), go to the Applications tab and click Add New. Use the following settings:

Application Name: Lutris (WSL)

Command: "DISPLAY=:0 C:\Windows\System32\wsl.exe -d debian gui-launch lutris"
(Replace <DistroName> with your actual distro, e.g., Ubuntu).

Detached Commands (Optional): If you want to launch a specific game directly instead of the whole Lutris UI, use:
C:\Windows\System32\wsl.exe -d <DistroName> lutris lutris:rungame/<game-slug>

Note on gui-launch: If your WSL setup doesn't automatically handle the GUI environment, you may need to prefix the command with DISPLAY=:0 or use a helper like wslg commands to ensure the window appears.

2. Handling Audio (The Common Gotcha)
Streaming from WSL to Sunshine often results in no audio because WSL uses PulseAudio/Pipewire, while Sunshine on Windows listens to the Windows Default Output.

The Fix: Ensure your WSL is configured to output audio to the Windows host. Most modern WSLg setups do this automatically via a RDP-based bridge.

If audio is missing, check if pulseaudio is running in WSL and directed to the host's IP or the WSL gateway.

3. Automated Setup (LutrisToSunshine)
If you have a massive library in Lutris and don't want to add games one by one, there is a community tool called LutrisToSunshine.

This script scans your Lutris database and automatically generates the apps.json entries for Sunshine.

It can even pull cover art from SteamGridDB so your Moonlight menu looks professional.

4. Performance Tuning
GPU Acceleration: Ensure you have the vGPU drivers installed on Windows (Nvidia/AMD/Intel) so WSL can use hardware encoding.

Resolution: In the Sunshine app settings, you can add "Prep Commands" to change your Windows resolution to match your streaming client (e.g., 1280x800 for Steam Deck) before Lutris opens.

Summary Table for Sunshine Config
Field	Value
Command	wsl.exe -d Ubuntu lutris
Working Dir	C:\Windows\System32
Image Path	(Link to a Lutris .png icon)
Would you like me to find the specific terminal command to check your WSL distro name or help you set up a resolution-matching script?




